SGF Tools 2.0.7

Board thumbnails and previews of SGF (Go game) files in Finder and Quick Look, Spotlight
search on players, events, dates, and results, and a screensaver that replays games.

Requires a Mac with Apple silicon and macOS 26 or later.


INSTALLING THE APP

1. Drag SGF Tools to the Applications folder.

2. Let macOS open it. SGF Tools is signed to run on your Mac, but it isn't notarized by
   Apple, so macOS won't open it until you allow it. Either:

   - In Terminal (the surest way, since it also clears the Quick Look and Spotlight
     extensions inside the app):

       xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine "/Applications/SGF Tools.app"

   - Or open SGF Tools, and when macOS says it can't verify it, click Done. Then in
     System Settings > Privacy & Security, scroll down to Security, click Open Anyway
     beside the message about SGF Tools, and confirm.

3. Open SGF Tools once, then run this in Terminal to reset Quick Look:

       qlmanage -r

4. In Finder, SGF files now show board thumbnails; select one and press the Space bar
   for the preview. If they don't, check that SGF Tools is on in System Settings >
   General > Login Items & Extensions, under Quick Look.

5. Spotlight indexes new and changed SGF files a minute or so later. To index the games
   you already have, run "mdimport -i" on each folder that holds them, for example:

       mdimport -i ~/Documents/Go


INSTALLING THE SCREENSAVER

1. Open SGF Tools and click Update Screensaver Games. macOS asks whether SGF Tools may
   read your Documents folder and your other disks; allow each. The window then says
   how many games it chose.

2. Drag SGF Tools.saver to your Desktop, and let macOS open it:

       xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine ~/Desktop/SGF\ Tools.saver

   Then double-click it, and choose to install it for this user only. You can then
   delete the copy on the Desktop.

3. In System Settings > Wallpaper, choose Screen Saver, and pick SGF Tools (under
   Other). With more than one display, select each display and choose SGF Tools for
   each.

To update the screensaver later, first run "killall legacyScreenSaver" in Terminal, then
install the new copy as in step 2.


MORE

The README, the source code, and help: https://github.com/imabuddha/SGF-Tools

SGF Tools 2.0 is by John Mifsud (Pragmaphilia Labs). It's a rewrite of SGF Tools 1.x,
started in 2009 by Jason Foreman. MIT License.
